InnerSource Hackathon: Add Aerospace Corporation as Known Instance and other content improvements (#899)
InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns: patterns/1-initial/innersource-hackathon.md

## Known Instances

* IKEA (Ingka Group)

> * **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource "contribfest" inspired by open source contribfests at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were curated with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on kanban boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the contribfest. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2024 talk by Tren Baumgarten and Caroline Jones).

Author: ```suggestion
* **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource "contribfest" inspired by open source contribfests at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were curated with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on kanban boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the contribfest. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2025 talk by Trin Baumgarten and Caroline T Jones).
```

All these help scale InnerSource in the organization.

## Related Patterns

* [Start as an Experiment](../2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) - a hackathon can serve as a low-risk experiment to demonstrate the value of InnerSource to management.
* [Praise Participants](../2-structured/praise-participants.md) - recognizing contributors during and after the hackathon helps sustain momentum.
* [InnerSource Portal](../2-structured/innersource-portal.md) - a portal helps participants discover projects to contribute to during the hackathon, and helps them stay engaged afterward.
* [Dedicated Community Leader](../2-structured/dedicated-community-leader.md) - the hackathon organizers often serve as community leaders who sustain InnerSource adoption after the event.
* [Gig Marketplace](../2-structured/gig-marketplace.md) - a gig marketplace can help match participants with tasks during the hackathon based on their skills and interests.

## Known Instances

* **IKEA** (Ingka Group)

> * **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource contribution festival inspired by open source contribution festivals at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were prepared with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on task boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the event. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2024 talk by Tren Baumgarten and Caroline Jones).

Author: It should be "Trin Baumgarten" & "Caroline T Jones"

Author: Also fix elsewhere

> * **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource contribution festival inspired by open source contribution festivals at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were prepared with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on task boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the event. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2024 talk by Tren Baumgarten and Caroline Jones).

Author: ```suggestion
* **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource contribution festival inspired by open source contribution festivals at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were prepared with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on task boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the event. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2025 talk by Tren Baumgarten and Caroline Jones).
```

> * **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource contribution festival inspired by open source contribution festivals at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were prepared with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on task boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the event. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2025 talk by Tren Baumgarten and Caroline Jones).

Author: ```suggestion
* **The Aerospace Corporation** organized an internal InnerSource contribution festival inspired by open source contribution festivals at conferences like KubeCon/CloudNativeCon. Aerospace is a Federally Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) where developers charge time to government contracts, making InnerSource adoption especially challenging because work not embedded in funded tasking does not happen. The event was organized by a software best practices team and held as a hybrid event (virtual and in-person in El Segundo, California). They secured dedicated funding so that all 31 participants across 21 departments could charge their time to the event. Tasks were prepared with project maintainers, documented with clear definitions of done and impact statements, and organized on task boards. At least one maintainer from every participating project was available for Q&A throughout the day. During and shortly after the event, 15 tickets were closed. Notably, one developer used the event to contribute a feature he needed back to an internal library rather than forking it — a direct demonstration of InnerSource solving the "fork storm" problem the company had been experiencing. Two-thirds of participants had never heard of InnerSource before the event, yet 100% of survey respondents agreed that InnerSource would have a positive impact on development and wanted to participate in a future event. Traffic to the company's internal documentation site nearly doubled in the month following the event. See: [Kickstarting InnerSource with a Contribfest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) (InnerSource Commons Summit 2025 talk by Trin Baumgarten and Caroline T Jones).
```

## Status

* Structured

> ## Author(s)

Author: ```suggestion
## Author
```

* Shanmugapriya Manoharan

## Acknowledgments

> * Tren Baumgarten and Caroline Jones (The Aerospace Corporation) for sharing their experience at the InnerSource Commons Summit.

Author: ```suggestion
* Trin Baumgarten and Caroline T Jones (The Aerospace Corporation) for [sharing their experience](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5KeCHFbnWA) at the InnerSource Commons Summit.
```
